the righteous parishes and no man takes
it to heart
merciful men are taken away while no one
considers that the righteous is taken
away from evil he shall enter into peace
they shall rest in their beds each one
walking in his uprightness but come here
you sons of the sorceress you offspring
of the adulterer and the harlot whom do
you ridicule against whom do you make a
wide mouth and stick out the tongue are
you not children of transgression
offspring of falsehood in flaming
yourselves with gods under every Green
Tree slaying the children in the valleys
under the clefts of the rocks among the
smooth stones of the stream is your
portion they they are your lot even to
them you have poured a drink offering
you have offered a grain offering should
I receive comfort in these on a lofty
and high mountain you have set your bed
even there you went up to offer
sacrifice also behind the doors and
their posts you have set up your
remembrance for you have uncovered
yourself to those other than me and have
gone up to them you have enlarged your
bed and made a covenant with them you
have loved their bed where you saw their
nudity you went to the king with
pointment and increased your perfumes
you sent your messengers far off and
even descended to shield you are we read
in the length of your way
you did not say there is no hope you
have found the life of your hand
therefore you were not grieved and of
whom have you been afraid or feared that
you have lied and not remembered me nor
taken it to your heart is it not because
I have held my peace from a vote but you
do not fear me I will declare your
righteousness and your works for they
will not profit you when you cry out let
your collection of idols deliver you but
the wind will carry them all away a
breath will take them but he who puts
his trust in me shall possess the land
and shall inherit my holy mountain and
one shall say keep it up keep it up
prepare the way take the stumbling block
out of the way of my people for thus
says the high and lofty one who inhabits
eternity whose name is holy i dwell in
the high and holy place with him who has
a contrite and humble spirit to revive
the spirit of the humble and to revive
the heart of the contrite ones for I
will not contend forever nor will I
always be angry
for the spirit would fail before me and
the souls which I have made for the
iniquity of his covetousness I was angry
and struck him I hid and was angry and
he went on backsliding in the way of his
heart I have seen his ways and will heal
him
I will also lead him and restore
comforts to him and to his mourners I
create the fruit of the lips
peace peace to him who is far off and to
him who is new and I will heal him but
the wicked are like the troubled sea
when it cannot rest whose waters cast up
mire and dirt there is no peace says my
God for the wicked